# FPGA-RTOS-GAME
The objective of this project is to develop a two player game running on the Micrium (µC) Real Time Operating System (RTOS). Each player uses their respective side of the host computer’s keyboard to control their player. This project will serve as the culmination of our study of embedded systems. Our deliverables will be composed of the various modules offered by the Intel Qsys Platform Designer. 

# Guide
A step-by-step report is available upon request but is too large for GitHub.

# Background
The DE2-115 development board is a field programmable gate array that provides the user with the means to develop simple logic circuits to complex embedded systems. The DE2 board provides numerous on board peripherals, ICs, and ports to integrate external components. For Example, we have the capability to receive input from the user from using the slide switches or push buttons. Each of which is memory addressable components. Once the data received from the user is received and processed, the result can be displayed onto the LCD screen, LEDS, or a display connected to the VGA port. 

The eclipse integrated development environment is an open source workspace that provides the designers with the ability to tackle any hardware and software project. Although the program is largely written in Java and intended for java applications, it has a vast library of plugins such as C++, Ruby, and Python. This creates an environment that is highly modular and sought after by those in the hardware design industry. 

The Qsys software, is a platform designer that aims to streamline the FPGA design process offered by intel as part of their Quartus package. Qsys is capable of automatically generating the connection between components of a large system or subsystem. In addition to auto connections, the software provides a plug and play environment where IP components can be selected and operated with default values automatically applied. Furthermore, the platform design tool can take the finished system and generate a HDL file of the custom system. 

During the course of the semester, the logic of our system employed the use of a super loop model. With this system design, the code is typically broken down into a setup and loop function that uses endless polls for input, services routines, and changes states. The super loop model is inefficient. It becomes difficult to scale and larger programs can become slow and cumbersome. The Real Time Operating System (RTOS) allows the designer to break a large program into a collection of processes that can come in and out of main memory when necessary. The goal of the RTOS system is to maximize efficient use of the cpu by imploring process scheduling algorithms to give each process access to critical resources.

Tailored for embedded systems, particularly those with real-time constraints, an RTOS is crucial for applications where tasks must be completed within specific deadlines. The RTOS used in this project has several names: Micrium/MicroC/µC/OS-II. Micrium OS offers a compact kernel featuring preemptive multitasking, task scheduling, and synchronization primitives like semaphores and mutexes. Using the the Board Support Package Editor in Eclipse, the maximum number of tasks and priority values can be specified. While it supports up to 255 tasks, it is important to note that each task must have a unique priority level. Micrium OS features a priority based scheduling algorithm that does not take into account time quanta. As a result, a scheduled task will run to completion unless interrupted or preempted by a higher priority task. Consequently, there is no “round-robin” algorithm in place for tasks with the same priority because this is not allowed - all tasks must have a unique priority so that the preemption works accordingly. 
